I'm very focused on making sure that we
can get inflation back to target. That
is one of our our primary objectives and
it's important that we complete the job.
Welcome back to another episode of WSJ's
Take on the Week. I'm Telis Demos. We
finally got another batch of vital
government economic data this past week,
but what came out of it was a pretty
mixed bunch of signals. You had the
unemployment rate rising unexpectedly to
its highest level since 2021, but the
number of jobs created beat
expectations. The consumer price index
was a little lighter than people
expected. Yet, Wall Street investors are
taking it with a grain of salt, as the
Journal put it in its coverage. Now,
it's the job of the Federal Reserve to
sift through all of this noise and
figure out what should happen next with
interest rates. Should it cut again?
Should it hold steady? Joining us now
are two guests to discuss it. One is the
Wall Street Journal's chief economics
correspondent, Nick Timmeros. Nick,
welcome.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> And the other guest is Beth Hammock. She
is a former top banker at Goldman Sachs
and now is president of the Cleveland
Fed and next year she will be a voter on
the Fed's rate setting committee. Beth,
welcome to the show.
>> Thanks so much for having me. So Beth,
you are by reputation one of the Fed's
hawks right now, meaning that you
haven't supported recent rate cuts. Uh,
and now we are recording this
conversation just a few hours after the
release of the November CPI report. Uh,
what did you make of those numbers?
>> Well, I don't make too much from any one
individual report. We try to look at the
whole constellation of the pictures that
comes together and it's great that we
are getting that gold standard BLS data
back again. Um, but I expected it and I
think most participants expected that
number to be a bit noisier given the
government shutdown and given that they
weren't able to be out there sampling a
lot of data. So when I look at um some
of the estimates of how you might want
to correct that number given given that
noise um it puts it closer to that 2.93%
number that we've been running at for
for CPI for some time now. Um and so of
course it's great to be getting this
official data back. It's only one of the
sources that I use when I think about
how I we I should be directing monetary
policy. Of course, I'm spending a lot of
time out in the district meeting with
businesses talking with them to
understand their perspective um and
looking at our forecast of where we
think the economy is headed. I was at a
dinner just last night with a group of
CEOs who was talking about both on the
labor side and the in inflation side and
and what I heard broadly was that
employment is still it's still hard to
find workers. It's not nearly as
difficult as it was a couple years ago,
but there are still struggles in
pockets, particularly in the
manufacturing sector and in the the
skilled trades. Those are two areas
where I continue to hear troubles. On
the pricing side, I do hear that
businesses have done a lot of work to
try to maintain their costs and they've
used technology of a variety of
different sorts to try to help offset
some of those pressures, but their input
costs continue to go up. And that's
something that they're feeling and it
may mean that they're going to be
raising prices again in the first
quarter of next year as to to help
offset some of those those input cost
pressures that they felt. So, while it's
great to get the the this official BLS
data back, um I do take it with a grain
of salt and of course one individual
report is never going to be uh
transformative in terms of my thinking.
It's just one piece of the puzzle.
>> So, Beth, I get that you're taking the
price data with a grain of salt. This
week, we also got employment data. It
showed that through November, the
economy's adding jobs uh particularly
private sector employment three-month
average is up uh from where it had
declined in the summer. But the
unemployment rate has crept higher now
with each uh month since the summer. We
we almost hit 4.6% this week uh for
November. What's your read on the labor
market?
>> The labor market has been gradually
cooling. What I've seen is that um we
had a hu a big shift over the late
summer from the larger headline payroll
numbers to these, you know, tens of
thousands. I think we're running
somewhere around a 60,000 average over
the past several months. Um and again
this one individual report I don't take
too much of it. Of course this was two
reports that we got at once because of
the the government shutdown and there
was a big swing between October and
November given that the retirements for
a number of those government workers
showed up in that in that October data.
Um and so I'm not taking too much from
that. Again what I'm trying to look at
is the broader constellation. Um leaning
on the stories that I'm hearing from
people out in the district. I am hearing
that recent college graduates are having
a tougher time finding opportunities and
that's something that we're seeing show
up in the numbers. Um and so it does
look like given the the very significant
shift that happened with the immigration
flows that it's possible that these
lower levels this 60,000 30 to 60,000
kind of average job creation might be
enough to keep a more stable
unemployment rate. Um just like the
inflation numbers had some issues with
sampling on the payroll side, we we
expect that there was probably some
noise in terms of the groups that they
went to uh forgetting that data as well.
And so that might have had some slight
upward bias to it. But again, it's just
one number and I want to take some time.
Fortunately, we have a lot of time
before our next meeting to see how how
the the broader picture comes in.
Is there anything from the reports we
got this week that would have changed
anything you wrote down in those
projections last week or that you would
have shared around the table last week?
Did these reports change your view of
the economy compared to where we were
just a week ago?
>> It's a challenging time for monetary
policy. We're being pressed on both
sides of our mandate. I think you've
heard Chair Powell talk about there's no
risk-free path. We are seeing a labor
market that's been gradually cooling,
but it doesn't seem to me that we have
signs of a more material movement around
the corner. I have pretty optimistic uh
growth forecasts for next year and which
align with a lot of street forecasts and
other professional forecasters who are
looking at next year and thinking that
we could have north of 2% GDP growth.
So, it's hard to reconcile that strong
GDP growth with this cooling that we're
seeing in the labor market, but it
doesn't feel like we're at the precipice
of some more material weakening. That
would be something I think that we would
need to ease into. On the other side, we
have seen inflation that's been missing
our target for almost five years. Um,
we've been stuck around this close to 3%
level for the better part of a year, 18
months, and we took some steps over the
the past quarter to reduce interest
rates. We took 75 basis points off of
the policy rate, which should help
support that labor side of our mandate.
But we do need to be mindful. I'm very
focused on making sure that we can get
inflation back to target. That is one of
our our primary objectives and it's
important that we complete the job.
>> So, I don't know if you thought about it
when like this when you were at Goldman,
but the Fed thinks about setting
interest rates relative to some
estimated neutral level that neither uh
restrains nor spurs the economy. And
you've said that you think we might
already be at that neutral level.
Why do you think that given that we've
seen weakness in some of the rate
sensitive sectors of the economy and are
you worried that cutting rates uh below
neutral here uh that we might end up
providing too much stimulus into the
economy?
>> So the neutral rate is unobservable.
It's one of these tricky things for us
as monetary policy makers because you do
want to have some sort of a north star
that you can judge policy against. Um,
but it's completely unobservable. So,
it's it's a a purely theoretical
construct. And the way that I think
about it now, the way that I thought
about it when I was in markets really
comes from just seeing how the economy
is performing. When I look broadly at
what's going on in the economy, um, I do
see a slightly cooling labor market. I
see inflation that's too high and I see
pretty healthy growth numbers. When I
look at financial conditions broadly,
you've got equity prices that are pretty
optimistic. We're trading, you know, at
or near um, all-time highs. You've got
bond yields that to my mind are are not
particularly high. Um I grew up in the
90s when interest rates were between
three and 6%. So 4% four and a quarter
tenure notes is kind of a to me feels
like a pretty neutral type level. You've
got credit spreads that are reasonably
tight. I don't hear from businesses when
I'm out talking to them that the
financial conditions or the availability
of credit is restraining their ability
to grow. And so to me it seems that
we're in that zip code of neutral. I
have one of the higher estimates of
neutral on the committee. Um, and so to
me, it feels like we're at maybe a
little bit below my estimate of neutral,
but I think policy is in a good place
right now for us to take some time and
see the impact of those three rate cuts
that were made towards the end of last
year. See how the economy performs in
the first quarter. There'll be a lot of
new variables coming to play. We have
the the recent fiscal bill that was
passed over the summer. There'll be some
positive boost, I think, happening in
the economy coming from that. and and
it'll be important to see how the tariff
story plays out. Um we'll be nearly a
year on by the time we get to March. And
so I think by springtime, if it really
is a one-time price level shift, we
should start seeing inflation coming
back down again around that time towards
the end of the first quarter. So, I
think it'll be pretty soon that we'll be
able to see more how the economy is
unfolding and it'll give us some good
insights as to whether we need to lean
in more to that labor side because that
that softening is continuing or whether
inflation is really being persistent
above our target and that's where we
need to focus more.
>> We know that a lot of consumers
certainly have have, you know, felt the
the pinch of of interest rates in what
they pay on their credit cards.
Certainly mortgage rates are are, you
know, too high for some people's liking,
but you recently hosted a conference
looking at financial stability and
talked a lot about the rise of uh
private credit. There's essentially a
boom in lending going on in some parts
of the financial markets. And I'm
wondering how much that plays into your
view on the the looseness of overall
financial conditions even at these rate
levels. Does that suggest a neutral
level when you're seeing all of these
firms really grow their lending
activities uh to to to quite
unprecedented levels in some parts of
the financial system?
>> Well, the capital markets are very
healthy. Um what I hear when I'm talking
to investment banks or or market
professionals is that the capital
markets are very robust right now.
Whether that's on the equity market,
you're seeing IPOs come back, whether
it's in debt financing, whether it's in
private credit or other forms. I think
there is um there is good activity
that's happening and that's
constructive. That means that businesses
and households can borrow when they need
to borrow. Um you know, mortgage rates
is a tricky one. People focus very much
on this. Obviously, that impacts your
own pocketbook when you're making your
mortgage payments. Uh there are a lot of
people out there that have these two and
a half and 3% mortgages that they took
on during the pandemic, coming out of
the pandemic. Um and with mortgage rates
now around 6%, to some people that feels
high. But I talked to other people who
got their first mortgage in the 80s or
early 90s and those had doubledigit
percentages. And so really 6% isn't all
that high in the context. The other
thing that I would caution on the the
mortgage rate side is that if you look
at an environment that would get us back
down to mortgage rates of 2 and a half
or 3%. It's probably indicative of
something really bad happening in the
economy. we really only get rates down
to 0% when we have, you know, very
significant issues that needs material
easing to help offset it. And when you
have rates that are that low, it will
elevate housing prices as well. And so
it's a complicated a complicated set of
factors to consider. you know, there are
some signals that in, you know, other
other parts of the Federal Reserve's
responsibilities that that that there's,
you know, a push toward uh, you know,
lighter capital requirements or some
deregulation on kind of banking
requirements and things like that. Is
that also sort of stimulative
of, you know, lending and financial
markets activity that would play into,
you know, whether or not those rates are
are are neutral?
>> It certainly could be. I mean banks are
one of the key
uh vehicles for providing credit through
the US economy and so to the extent that
their capital requirements or liquidity
requirements are reduced which hasn't
happened just yet but um certainly is a
topic of conversation that the the vice
chair for supervision has been thinking
about that could put more of an impetus
into that lending to make it easier for
businesses to to find credit
availability. Um, I do think it's
important given where we are right now
from a monetary policy perspective, from
an overall economy perspective. This is
a challenging time, right? We've got
challenges on the labor side, we've got
challenges on the inflation side. And so
to me, it's important that we maintain a
somewhat restrictive or neutral stance
of policy so that we don't over
stimulate the economy and potentially
reinvigorate uh inflationary concerns. I
don't think we're at a level right now
that's at risk of doing that. Um, but
it's something that we should continue
to watch closely. And I do think that
the regulatory backdrop is certainly one
of the factors that I put um, it's hard
to quantify, but it is something that I
put into my framework as I think about
where we are from an overall neutral
perspective.
>> Beth, it maybe didn't get as much
attention, but the Fed last week said it
would begin to allow its balance sheet
to grow after having allowed it to
passively contract for the last several
years and and through November. Now uh
some in the markets worry that bank
reserves might have gotten too low which
could create undesirable pressures uh
funding pressures for financial
institutions around certain payment
dates. On the other hand, there are some
leading voices including the Treasury
Secretary who have argued that the Fed's
balance sheet is still too large. Now
you bring a valuable perspective here
because you worked at a bank funding the
bank and you weren't at the Fed. you
don't have the scars of 15 years of
debates around how large a balance sheet
you should have. So, how do you see the
pros and cons of the current uh monetary
implementation regime and and do you
think there should be a push to make the
Fed's balance sheet smaller?
>> Well, the action that was taken last
week is really a technical adjustment.
We've said um the Fed said back in 2019
that we wanted to operate in what we
call an ample reserves framework, an
ample reserves regime. That means that
all the banks and financial institutions
can have access to however many reserves
they deem appropriate for them. And
we're helping to set monetary policy.
We're helping to govern interest rates
based on administered rates rather than
having to be in the market doing open
market operations. We got to a level
that was around ample. Ample is not one
specific number. It's a range. Um we got
in that zip code of Ample. And so it's
appropriate that as the economy is going
to grow, the balance sheet needs to grow
alongside it. If you look at where the
balance sheet is and you look at some of
the key components, um reserves is a
very big one, a very big portion of it.
Um the Treasury general account is
another and currency in circulation is
the other. Um currency in circulation
now is around 2.4 trillion. And so it
would be impossible to take our balance
sheet below that unless we were
destroying currency. And so to go back
to a balance sheet that looked like
something um around 2007 where the
balance sheet was, you know, much much
smaller um would require significantly
less currency in circulation. It would
require a different operating regime
where banks were not as able to have
reserves as freely. And I think there's
real financial stability benefits in the
banks being able to have reserves at the
level that they deem appropriate. um it
allows for payments to move more fluidly
throughout the day. Um and it, you know,
doesn't put pressure on them to to make
lastm minute funding choices. So I think
it is a is a service that is inexpensive
for the Fed to provide reserves to the
banks. And so it's appropriate for us to
do that um and keep in this ample
reserves framework.
>> You were in that seat at Goldman Sachs
and the treasurer's role in back in
2019, right? during what was we call it
now I guess the the repo repo rate spike
uh episode and we just talked about it a
couple weeks ago on this show with Bank
of New York's Nate Warfl who was at the
New York Fed at the time. How much does
that episode kind of live in your
memory? Are there scars from that and
and is that something that that you
think that the Fed should be really
really you know invested in avoiding
again or do you think that look those
things might happen but ultimately there
are bigger considerations? Well, I
certainly remember it um having been in
the Treasury seat and having been a
former money markets trader as well. So,
I do remember very vividly um what
happened in the markets around those
days. Um and it it was a disruption for
a couple of days. It wasn't something on
the order of magnitude of what happened
in March of 2020. I was treasurer for
that as well. And that felt much more um
significant and much more
interconnected, much broader financial
stability. what happened in September of
19 um to me felt like a technical issue.
The good news is that we are a learning
institution. We continue to evaluate and
assess uh market dynamics and stay in
touch with market participants. And so
it's important that we continue to
understand how the actions we take are
impacting the markets broadly and making
sure that policy is being implemented in
the way we expect and want it to be.
We're going to take a quick break and
when we come back, more questions for
Beth Hammock of the Cleveland Fed.
>> Beth, you've been at the Fed for a year
now. What have you learned about the job
of being the Fed chair and why does it
matter who has that job?
>> The Fed chair is an influential role. It
like the chair of almost any committee.
They're the leader. They're the person
who helps set the tone, set the agenda,
and determine the items that we're going
to focus on. One of the things I love
about being around the FOMC table is you
have 19 participants with very different
backgrounds coming from very different
walks of life who are all bringing their
intellect, their insights, their
experiences to bear on behalf of the
American public. And so, it's a great
environment uh for discussion, for
debate, for healthy um back and forth.
And I think that the chair sets the tone
for what those conversations can look
like. I have enormous respect for Chair
Powell. I think he's done a great job at
bringing the committee together, trying
to set direction for us. Um, but
allowing everyone to have their
perspectives and and making sure that
all those viewpoints are represented. A
lot of conversation about the US dollar
lately has been around um interest in in
the future of the Federal Reserve and
its credibility and on continuing to
fight inflation. Uh people talk about
ddollarization as one outgrowth of that.
A lot of investors investing abroad. Do
you think that's a legitimate concern?
>> Well, the independence of the Fed as it
relates to monetary policy I think is of
critical importance. There's a
tremendous body of research that shows
that independent central banks deliver
better outcomes on both the employment
and the inflation side over the medium
to longer term. And so maintaining that
independence to be able to deliver those
outcomes for the public is really
important to me. Having an independent
Fed means that you will have more stable
inflation um and having stable
inflation, low stable inflation allows
businesses and ha households to plan for
the future. And so it helps to be the
basis and the foundation of a solid,
healthy, growing labor market as well.
And so to me, having that independence
where I'm focused on the data. I'm
focused on my forecasts. I'm focused on
the balance of risks and I'm focused on
the stories that I'm hearing from around
the district. That's what it means to
have an independent central bank. That
those are the factors I'm considering
when setting policy and I'm not thinking
about short-term political pressures or
other noise that might be happening
outside the room. You know, the
structure of the Fed's interesting
because a lot of that independence comes
from the 12 Reserve Bank uh and their
presidents who are not appointed by
anybody directly in Washington. Uh
there's been increased focus recently on
the role of the Reserve Bank presidents.
Now, you you and almost all of your
colleagues were reappointed earlier this
month to new 5-year terms, but Treasury
Secretary Bessant has argued recently
that regional presidents should have
roots in their district and has and
should not be transplants from New York.
Uh, you know, you came to this job from
New York, so he may have been talking
about you. Does he have a point there?
Should the people who have jobs like
yours have um some ties to their
district?
>> So, it's important to remember that
every Fed president is selected by a
local board of directors that's made up
of community members and leaders from
that region, whether it's Lexington,
Kentucky, um Northeast Ohio, Cincinnati,
Pittsburgh, West Virginia, around the
district, that's where they come from.
And so, it's those leaders who select,
they choose the person they want to lead
their institution. Um, it's, I think,
important to be connected to your
district. It's important to build
relationships. Um, and that's been
something that's been really fun for me
as, as I've relocated to Northeast Ohio.
My husband actually grew up here. His
family's here, so we have a lot of
connections in the district already, but
it's great to get out and get to meet
businesses. Um, there's nothing in the
Federal Reserve Act that says where
presidents need to come from. Um, and I
do think it's important that those
boards have the ability to choose people
that they feel can really represent
their interests appropriately.
>> I want to ask you about something that
is certainly on the mind of investors
right now as they think about 2026 and
that's artificial intelligence.
Certainly the markets are wrestling with
um, you know, how big companies and and
the US markets will will deal with this
transition. How much does AI and the
impacts it might have on employment, on
productivity factor into the way you're
thinking about uh what interest rates
should be doing over the next couple?
>> Yeah, it certainly is a topic of
conversation that is impossible to
ignore. Almost every meeting I have with
a business leader comes to AI at some
point in the discussion. And you're
right, it is multifaceted. Um you know,
it's having impacts on the bond market
in terms of um the funding that's
happening uh to to build these data
centers. It's having impacts in energy
markets. We hear very often from leaders
of energy companies that power
generation is not going to be able to
keep pace with the the point of growth.
And AI, you know, could have impacts on
jobs. What I tend to hear most when I'm
out with businesses is that it will be a
complement to their workforce rather
than a replacement. But of course, it's
going to it's going to vary depending on
the industry that you're in and how it's
being approached. Um, and and it is
something that I want to watch closely.
I don't see it showing up in the numbers
yet. some of our team at the Cleveland
Fed have done some analysis to see are
we starting to see the impacts of AI in
the labor market and we don't see clear
evidence of that yet but it's always
very hard to know when you're at the
beginning of one of these stories what
those impacts are going to look like um
and so all of those will be big factors
and of course the productivity story
which could have an impact on our star
on that neutral rate that we talked
about earlier um that could be more
upward biased if this is having more
material productivity impact so there's
a lot to think about. There's a lot to
learn. It's it's one of the best parts
of the job is to be out talking to
people, hearing their experiences, and
understanding how these new technologies
are impacting the way that they run
their companies.
>> Beth, you're going to be rotating into a
voting seat on the FOMC next year. Do
you see anything right now that would
warrant reducing rates again at your
next meeting at the end of January?
Right now, I think monetary policy is
well positioned to see how the economy
unfolds in the first quarter. We've been
at this challenging place for monetary
policy where we're pushed on both the
employment side. We've seen this gradual
softening in the labor market, but at
the same time, inflation has been above
our target for nearly 5 years. And I
think it's really important for us to
try to bring that down. where we are
today is my base case that we can stay
here for some period of time until we
get clearer evidence that either
inflation is coming back down to target
the employment side is weakening more
materially those I think would require
us to change from where we are but right
now I think we're at a good place to
wait and see how the economy unfolds do
you anticipate there being anything that
could happen over the next year that
would switch from whether to cut or hold
rates to start to raise interest rates
could the economy be doing well enough
in 2026 that that enters the
conversation.
>> It's not my base case, but I'm certainly
open-minded and I like to consider all
possibilities. Um, I don't want to
prejudge where the economy is or where
it will be. I do have a forecast. That
forecast has pretty solid growth. It has
inflation coming down a little bit, but
not a lot through the course of next
year. and it has the unemployment rate
stabilizing um at levels just slightly
below where uh the most recent reports
had come in. And so to me, that's
actually what we've been shooting for.
We came out of this period in 2021 of
very elevated inflation and extremely
tight labor market. Um and we've been
aiming for that golden path of getting
to a soft landing. If we're able to
bring inflation back down to target, if
we maintain this healthy balance in the
labor market around estimates of full
employment, that would be a great place
to be. And that's that's really my base
case right now. But of course, I need to
be prepared and need to be mindful that
this is a world where we have to expect
the unexpected. And so I'm sure there
will be curve balls coming at us next
year that I can't anticipate that could
force us to significantly reduce or
raise rates. And I we need to be
prepared for all possibilities.
>> All right. So much to think about for
2026. Beth, thank you so much for
joining us.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> And Nick, thanks for joining us as well.
We're going to take a break right now
and when we come back, Nick and I are
going to talk about what we just heard
in this interview.
So, Nick, uh, just before we recorded
this, uh, we got the anticipated CPI
number for November, and it was light,
right? It was, uh, lighter than
expected. Um, but also, Wall Street
looked at the number and saw a bunch of
kind of wonky stuff going on with it and
didn't take it too seriously. And it
sounds like Beth Hammock, who has, as
discussed, you know, been skeptical of
interest rate cuts in the past, it
doesn't seem like this one report is
going to be enough to change her view or
probably of other people of a hawkish
bent on the Fed, does it?
>> Yeah, I think that's right. This this
one month of data or maybe two months if
you're looking at the payroll numbers,
you know, what we heard from Beth is
that it's certainly not enough to turn a
hawk into a dove. And I think that
speaks to the broader challenge the Fed
has right now. And which is why you've
seen some of these more unusual
divisions on the committee, which is the
choose your narrative uh you know, kind
of quality to the data. You can look at
the CPI uh as some people have and said,
see it it, you know, we've we've known
shelter was going to begin to cool down.
We've we've expected the tariff pass
through to get worked through uh and now
we're seeing it. Or you can take the
view she had, which is to say there's so
much noise in this data. You know, she
said she thought if you if you kind of
rebalance the methodology, you'd be
closer to the 2.9 or 3.0% inflation that
analysts were expecting. So, no real
change in her outlook off of off of this
data to my ear.
>> Yeah. And I think she highlighted a
couple things that we'll will will
definitely be talking points. So, think
about it's holiday time, right?
retailers are probably not of the mind
to raise their prices at this time of
year. They'd rather if tariffs are
squeezing them, they'd rather just kind
of eat it than uh pass it along to
consumers during during holiday time.
>> I'll go back to something else she said,
which is that she talked about being a
year out from tariffs next March that we
now have had a full year. And I think
for some of the more hawkish
um you know Fed officials, the concern
they have is okay, maybe the tariff pass
through has been more attenuated and
more gradual than than expected. But
that could be because businesses are
just waiting and eventually they're
going to get to a point where they can't
hold back anymore. You know, the Dubs
think they're not going to be able to
pass it through. the economy is not
strong enough and so they're just going
to uh have to lay workers off or accept
uh lower margins. The hawks are worried
that in the first quarter, so the
January inflation number that we get in
February, the February inflation number
that we get in March, that might be when
you start to see some of these chunkier,
you know, 0.4% month- over-month
inflation increases. So, you know, to to
my ear, she's talking about, well, let's
let's get into March before we sort of
declare what the narrative is for the
economy. And that hasn't been where the
doves have been on the committee,
obviously, because they cut interest
rates at their last three meetings.
>> And with jobs, I think it's really hard
to draw a line through some of these
recent jobs reports, at least. I know
we've been struggling with that here at
the Wall Street Journal. rewrite our
economic stories, right? Uh there was
the noise from the shutdown. You have
what we're narratively at least talking
about, which is, you know, is AI finally
coming for white collar jobs? Beth
mentioned that she didn't think that
that was evident in the data yet, but
it's certainly something on people's
minds. Uh do do you think that we're
we're coming to any clarity on on the
labor market? Is that going to be
something that that there's a consensus
about at the Fed, you know, into next
year?
>> You know, based on our interview, I
didn't hear it. Uh, again, the doves can
say unemployment rate going up by a
tenth or more now, four straight months,
not counting October since we didn't get
anything on October. Wage growth
slowing. You know, this is clearly
demand. And and again, the hawks can
point to private sector job growth
stabilizing at a slightly better pace
than it was at in the summer. Um supply
questions around immigration. So, you
know, the data just don't seem to be
moving uh quite enough to make hawks
dovish or doves more hawkish. And I
think until that happens, you end up
with, you know, kind of the the pee-wee
soccer scrum here on the field where
nobody really is in complete control of
where this is going.
>> And we didn't talk, we talked about
tariffs, but we didn't talk about maybe
the biggest looming news in tariffs,
which is the Supreme Court decision on
on the president's AIPA powers. How much
do you think the people at the Fed are
waiting to see what happens with that to
really firm up their views on, you know,
sort of the the path of prices,
you know, in a in a in a tariff world?
>> Yeah. I think the challenge with the
legal case is President Trump has made
clear he still wants to have tariffs. if
they make it harder for him to impose
tariffs by taking away the IPA u
rationale, he still has other provisions
he can use sections 2011 or 301 uh
through the commerce department. They're
clunkier. They're they're, you know,
they're not as easy to do, but you can
still try to effectuate a similar tariff
regime. So, I think for the Fed, they
kind of are putting that to the side,
and they're not going to react to a
ruling one way or the other until you
get maybe several more months of clarity
on what the administration's backup plan
is and how they execute it. We talked a
little bit with Beth about the
importance of Fed independence and
obviously that's certainly a talking
point with who might get the nomination
as the next Fed chair, but in general
does does does a a lame duck Fed chair
kind of change the dynamics at the Fed?
I mean, whoever might get the
nomination, uh, are things just going to
start to open up and do we see more
disscent during that time just because
people are getting ready for sort of a
change in in leadership? What does it
mean that we're we're going to be in the
final months of Jerome Powell's time as
Fed chair, maybe regardless of who the
next chair is?
>> Well, I mean, I'm curious to hear your
take. I think there's a difference
between what happens internally versus
externally. Externally, the closer we
get to the end of Powell's term, the
less the market can rely on anything
Powell says. The power of his words and
his guidance is going to diminish. But I
think internally it doesn't really
change much. This is a committee that
even if they don't agree with him, you
know, Beth has not agreed with these
interest rate cuts that he led the
committee to make, but she still you she
says she still has high respect for him.
And so there's been a narrative out
there that says, "Oh, he's losing
control of the committee as he gets
closer to the end of his term. From what
I see and from what I report, that's
completely wrong." Uh, you know, he was
able to secure this last cut. Uh, he was
able to get people who maybe didn't
really support it to to go along with
it. And so I think the challenge really
is more about can the next chair get
people like Beth Hammock to do things
that they maybe kind of sort of don't
want to do because there are going to be
those 6040 or 5545 decisions and you
know so but I'm curious how you see it.
I I think it would take not just who is
the Fed chair, but then how quickly does
you know is there is there just a a step
change in policy. So I I wonder if
markets have have to some extent um kind
of talked this up, but that ultimately
it will be a you know when the news
finally arrives, maybe we won't see that
enormous of of a change. And and look,
we've got equal concerns about um you
know, kind of the direction of fiscal
policy and monetary policy in other
parts of the world. I think for
investors to really make a big move, you
know, a huge selloff in the 30-year
Treasury or something would take
something much more extraordinary. Uh
well, Nick, um you know, the the the job
of reporters covering uh the economy and
the Fed uh is not easy these days.
There's so much going on, but but you
know, having that conversation with Beth
suggests that it's not easy to be a a
Fed decision maker either. there's
there's the the the data isn't pointing
clearly in one direction and there's
just so much going on with like big
policy pictures that I I think 2026 is
going to be a pretty wild year. What
about you?
>> Yeah, it'll keep it'll keep things
interesting. It'll keep us on our toes
in the new year. That's for sure.
>> All right, Nick, thanks for joining us.
I'm sure we'll be doing this kind of
thing again throughout 2026. This is not
the last time the Fed will be in the
news.
>> Well, thank you. It was my pleasure.
>> All right. Well, this is actually our
last episode of 2025. We're going to be
out in a couple of weeks with a take on
the year episode that looks back at the
year that was and looks ahead to the
year that will be in 2026. But we're
going to take a little break for the
holidays and then start rolling out some
great episodes in January. We've already
got you should see our list. It's
already a terrific slate of episodes.
Thank you for joining us throughout 2025
and we hope that you'll continue to
trust us with your time in 2026 to talk
about business, finance, economics, and
maybe have a little fun along the way.
>> [music]
>> All right, we're recording.
Everybody all set?
Nick's good?
>> We are recording.
>> Cleveland's good. All right, great.
Okay,
>> good. Cleveland rocks.
>> Cleveland rocks.
[music]